There was a thumb on the scale for the
president's version of events that I
felt was a level of political influence
that I had never seen in 37 years at CBS
News. [music]
>> I'm Lulu Garcia Navaro and this is the
interview. It's hard to overstate the
impact of 60 minutes on journalism. And
that's what cigarettes are for. Most
certainly. It's a delivery device for
nicotine.
>> Most people in this country think you
are the face of evil, don't they?
>> I'm just being me.
>> Since its debut on CBS in 1968, it's
been the home of some of the most famous
[music] and lauded journalists.
>> I asked you
as an American
>> from Mike Wallace and Ed Bradley,
>> mortar shells going off
>> to Leslie Stall,
>> Anderson Cooper, and until [music] this
past week, Scott P. We don't torture
people. College Shake Muhammad, we don't
torture people.
>> Water boarding. We do not I don't talk
about techniques.
>> P was fired after [music] an explosive
series of events and much turmoil at
CBS, including a controversial financial
settlement with President Trump, the
sale of the network to David Ellison and
the appointment of Barry [music] Weiss
to lead CBS News.
>> She was putting a thumb on the scale on
behalf of the administration. P along
with a number of other 60 Minutes
correspondents who were fired [music]
have now accused Weiss of editorial
interference and bias, charges that CBS
and Weiss deny. [music]
We've included a fuller statement from
CBS News at the end of the episode. This
is Scott Pelly's first sitdown interview
since he was fired. [music]
Thank you so much for coming in. Um I
know that this is a very difficult
moment. You were just fired from the
news organization which you were at the
heart of for 37 years.
>> I can't believe I'm hearing those words.
[laughter]
>> CBS News.
>> Yes.
>> I want to actually start by just asking
you how you're feeling in this moment
before we start how you got here.
Well, if we want to talk about it at an
emotional level, the best thing that I
can imagine in terms of describing it is
that it's it's like your spouse was
murdered.
Um,
there's some moments of the day I feel
fine. There are some moments of the day
that um I just frankly uh fall apart uh
when I least expect it. Not that there's
any particular trigger, but I I do want
to be clear uh that I do not
feel sorry for me. I don't care about
me. I'm fine.
I care about these people that I left
behind.
uh the people who are still
trapped there
and this institution
that I love so much.
Um you said that I've been there 37
years. I've been married 42 years.
Uh so that's the depth of my devotion.
>> Let's talk about how we got to this
moment. Um,
a few days before your firing, several
high-profile 60 Minutes correspondents
and leaders were fired. Leading up to
that, there hadd been a lot of reporting
about changes that were coming to 60
Minutes.
Was that the sort of change you were
expecting? [snorts]
>> I No one saw the Black Thursday massacre
coming.
This is our entire senior staff.
People beloved Tanya Simon, our
executive producer. She's the boss. And
this was her triumph. She's the first
woman ever to be executive producer of
60 Minutes. And she concluded this
season
with a growth in our audience of 9%
which is unheard of in broadcast
television and a growth in our online
presence of
190%.
Last season we had 2.5
billion
views.
That's a third of humanity. M
>> so we're riding high. This management
team has been brilliant. Tanya has the
best first year of any executive
producer and I've worked for all of
them. [snorts]
And then and and then the night before
Tanya and I and Dragon Mahalovich deputy
etc. We're all at the Emmy Awards
>> and we win two Emmy awards.
Within hours, all of those people have
been wiped out.
And one-third of our correspondents
have been fired.
And at the same moment that that
happens,
we are informed of our new executive
producer. [gasps]
His name is Nick Bilton. I'm sure he
must be a wonderful man, but no one had
ever heard of him. He has zero
experience in television news and no
experience in management. So imagine how
we feel
when someone like that comes into a shop
like 60 Minutes.
>> Explain to me exactly how you felt.
>> Um shock, dismay,
uh impossible to believe,
searching desperately for an
explanation.
>> [snorts]
>> knowing that an explanation would be
forthcoming and then not seeing that. No
executive at CBS News, uh, our
editor-inchief, Barry Weiss, coming over
to 60 Minutes to explain to to talk with
us, to sit with us. That's a family.
at 60 Minutes. My colleagues and I have
worked together 10, 20, 30 years. We
travel together. We dine together. We go
into literal combat together.
My former boss and former producer, Bill
Owens,
[snorts]
saved my life
in a firefight
in Iraq.
So, Lulu,
these bonds are pretty tight.
And when somebody
wipes out,
murders
a large number of your family members.
People are hurt and shocked in disbelief
and just desperate for some explanation.
And as you and I sit here today, there
still has been none. CBS leadership says
that they tried to get in touch with you
to talk about all of those changes um
before Builton's first day
and you didn't speak to them. Why not?
>> I'm almost 69 years old and if I've
learned one thing in life, it is not to
reflexively react when you feel that
way.
And I thought, you know, I'm going to um
give it
a day or something. Um I'm too
emotionally wrought up. I'm going to say
the wrong thing. I'm not going to hear
what they have to say. This isn't the
moment.
Um it was incredible to me that they did
[snorts] reach out to talk to me uh
after wiping all these people out. I
mean, within hours.
So,
um, we had a baby shower at the house
>> and we got through the weekend and I
learned that u Nick Bilton was going to
speak to the 60-minute staff on that
next Monday morning. [snorts]
My wife and I uh had a long planned
hiking trip in the Canadian Rockies
planned and I wasn't going to be able to
be at the meeting
and uh she and I talked about it.
Realized that this was an existential
moment for 60 Minutes so we canled the
vacation so I could be there and that
was the first time um that I had an
opportunity to uh meet Nick Bilton. At
that meeting, you
spoke up very forcefully. Um, you asked
him why he'd taken the job knowing, and
this is a quote, that you will never be
welcome here. Why did you decide to have
that first interaction with your new
boss in public and not behind closed
doors?
>> It wasn't in public. It was behind
closed doors.
>> I was with my family in a closed room.
None of this was meant to be public.
>> Mhm.
>> But Lulu, imagine I'm walking into this
room
with these people who have devoted their
lives to 60 Minutes.
They have not received any kind of
explanation.
They are waiting for Barry Weiss to walk
in the room in the hope that she's going
to explain why this tragedy has occurred
and why it was so necessary.
And I'm waiting to see who comes in. And
it's uh Nick Bilton and one of um
Barry's deputies. No Barry.
People are a little shocked by this.
As we're standing in there, Nick makes
his way to the front of the room
and does something absolutely
jaw-dropping to me.
He pulls out his phone and begins
reading a statement off his phone
in a room full of 50 heartbroken people.
the callousness,
the tone deafness of that.
You could hear the groan in
[clears throat] the room when that
happened.
Um,
they'd put out a big spread of bagels
like we were all going to feel better.
And also if I can give you a little bit
of context
>> please.
>> What had happened a couple of days
before the meeting was so critical. Nick
Bilton wrote an email to the staff sort
of introducing himself
and
it was
so insulting to the staff and so
insulting uh to the history of 60
Minutes. Um he told us in that email
that um it wasn't 1968 anymore
and he helpfully noted that gasoline
doesn't cost 32 cents anymore
>> and suggested that we had all been
frozen in amber in 1968 when the program
first went on the air and that nothing
had improved. and he said in his email
that it was quote strange
end quote that [snorts] 60 Minutes is
only on the air at 7:00 Eastern time on
Sunday once a week
>> when we've been on the air 24/7
globally online for
well over a decade. It betrayed the fact
that Nick Bilton didn't know anything
about us, didn't know anything about our
culture, and yet was being imposed on us
um as our new executive producer, our
new leader. So, people read that memo.
It's very concerning. It's
heartbreaking.
It's hard to compare this to anything
other than something that actually could
happen to your family.
It's a very
uh loving
and empathetic organization
and we were met with cold,
callous
indifference
to what anyone thought. Why did you feel
that you were the person that needed to
get the answers to the questions that
you had and everyone had at that
meeting? Why did you feel compelled to
speak up?
>> It was fate. First of all, our entire
senior staff had been wiped out. They're
not there. [gasps] I looked around the
room. I'm the only correspondent there,
which surprised me very much. I learned
that my colleagues were out shooting
stories, as they should be in the month
of June. But I'm the only correspondent
there, which surprised me. And I looked
around at my friends and colleagues in
the room and realized I was the senior
person.
Um, only I could do it. None of them
could be asked to take that risk.
So
when I saw
Nick Bilton's email and then saw him
reading to my brokenhearted people off
his phone,
um I felt that somebody had to stand up
for the broadcast. Not just the
broadcast, but the people.
There are people in that room who go to
war zones when they are pregnant.
News rooms are sort of like the military
or the police or
the beautiful people at the FDNY down
the street. It is a lifethreatening
job in many instances
and um very strong bonds, very emotional
bonds are found or are developed in that
kind of setting.
And to have people
running CBS News who don't know that,
have never felt that, and don't
understand it
is a tragedy I never expected to see.
>> You know, Barry Weiss came into the job
with a mandate to evolve and modernize
CBS News to reinvent legacy media.
In that meeting, you said Weiss was, and
I'm quoting here, murdering 60 Minutes,
language that you've used here.
Can you explain to me what you mean by
that? You're using words like massacre,
murder.
What do you mean by that?
>> It was the wholesale nature of it. Our
senior staff wiped out after a triumphal
year. Let's remember that. I if the
ratings had collapsed or there was some
journalistic scandal about a story then
okay we deserve it but we had a
triumphal year so this is incredibly
difficult to understand Cecilia Vega
Sharon Alonsi our very best
correspondents
just sumearily fired for no stated
reason and without explanation this is
onethird third of our correspondent
corps. So, this isn't like they fired
our boss, which they did.
They wiped out a large number of people.
One of the things Nick Bilton said in
that uh ill- fated email to the staff
was that he was excited to tell, I'm
paraphrasing here, he was excited to
tell the staff about the new crop of
correspondents.
And when I saw that, I thought, "Okay,
they're going to fire all of us
eventually.
>> That's the plan." He put it in writing
for all of us to see. [snorts]
And so that's why I use these,
admittedly for a journalist, hyperbolic
terms.
They capture the scale of what happened.
You then do have a meeting with CBS
leadership after this very contentious
um interaction. Can you tell me about
that meeting and and if you were at that
point going in expecting to be fired?
>> Oh gosh. Furthest thing from my mind. It
hadn't occurred to me. Um, the president
of CBS News, uh, Tom Sowski, sent me a
note and said, "Can you come by and talk
to us?" And I said, "Absolutely." I
scheduled about an hour on my calendar
for the meeting. I didn't know who was
going to be there uh, in the meeting.
So, I walk in the door
and I see Barry Weiss is sitting in
there and I think, "This is terrific of
her.
she she's come to this meeting and and
now I'm going to be able to ask her
these questions. She's going to be able
to explain what happened.
>> But it really didn't occur to you that
you could be fired after so many of your
colleagues had been let go after you'd
had this, you know, very contentious
interaction with your new boss.
>> You know, some reporter I turned out to
be. Uh I just didn't connect the dots. I
mean, was this meeting contentious? Yes.
But 60 Minutes is known for two things,
a ticking stopwatch and hard questions.
And we ask ourselves those hard
questions in the shop because they
sharpen us and make us better. There was
a screening once with Mike Wallace. And
Mike and the executive producer and
founder of 60 Minutes, Don Hewitt, got
into a big argument about a script.
>> [snorts]
>> Wallace jumps up in the middle of the
screening, throws his script up in the
air, and yells at Don, "Well, then you
write the effing thing."
One of those pieces of paper comes down
and slices an associate producer across
the face. He's bleeding now. He's got a
paper cut on his face.
That was about a story.
>> [snorts]
>> The meeting that I was in was about
whether 60 Minutes was going to even
survive or not.
>> So, you walk in and what was the energy
of the room?
>> Hostile.
Um, dismissive. Before I could take my
seat, Tom Sowski said, "This is a firing
offense."
>> I was confused. I wasn't sure who he was
talking about in the room,
but it became plain very quickly that
they were talking about me and they were
unhappy about the meeting that had
occurred.
Um, a meeting that had ended in
thunderous applause
uh for me if I may say so because
somebody had stood up for the broadcast.
So So I sit down like, "Okay, well let's
talk about it."
Um,
Tom accuses me of physically
abusing
Nick Bilton.
This is a lie. I didn't come within 10
ft of Nick Bilton. In my life, I have
never put my hands on anyone in anger.
Not one time.
And when he was caught in that lie, he
said, 'Well, okay, I take that back. And
I said, 'Great. [snorts] Conversation
proceeded a little bit. I turned to
Barry Weiss, who was sitting to my left,
and I said, but let's, you know, let's
talk about the firings. Why were the
firings necessary? I'm not answering
that question.
Well, how did Tanya Simon not lead the
broadcast brilliantly? I'm not answering
that question.
Okay, Sharon Alonsi,
Cecilia Vega. I mean,
what possible reason could there be to
take them off the air? I'm not answering
that question. So, now I'm detecting a
pattern [snorts]
that's going to go nowhere. She is still
going to stonewall about why she took
all these people out.
So,
I'm thinking that the meeting's going to
carry on. We're going to have a long
conversation. I'm going to hear from
them about what they think. They're
going to hear from me about what I
think. Um, the [clears throat]
temperature in the room is low, but it's
very hostile from their side. I'm
speaking about the way I'm speaking to
you now.
Very quickly after the meeting began,
Tom Sabrowski said, "This conversation
is over."
I was stunned.
[snorts]
I didn't have a 60-minute stopwatch in
that room. I don't know how long it
lasted really, but I think it was about
10 minutes. So they tell me, that is to
say, Tom Sabrowski tells me as I'm
walking through the door, "You'll have
our answer in a few minutes."
>> I went over to my office and much to my
surprise, um, all of my guys on my team
were still there. They wanted to know
what happened in the meeting. What was
that all about? Did they explain why our
people were fired?
And um, I sat down in my office. It has
a big plate glass window that looks out
on the newsroom and there were a whole
bunch of people standing out there, but
I didn't think anything of it. I'm
waiting to find out what my fate is. I
explained to my team, I think I just got
fired, but they haven't told me that.
And then I look up and all those people
are still out there and staff members
and I don't think anything of it. And
then it hits me.
This is a vigil.
An hour goes by, two hours go by, three
hours go by, four hours go by, and I go
back outside and said, "I'm leaving
you." They're been standing out there
for 4 hours. I said, "I'm leaving. You
guys have got to go home to your
families right now. I doubt they're
going to tell me tonight."
So, I packed up and left just so those
people would go home. And not long after
that, the email came through and said
that I'd been uh fired.
>> Just to understand your
position in this, you would have been
open to a path forward. You wanted to
remain at 60 Minutes.
>> Absolutely. A path forward to me was a
obvious
uh conclusion for what this meeting was
going to be about. That's exactly what I
thought. Um, and I expected them to say,
"Look, this is why we had to fire
everybody. I mean, you your questions,
Scott, are valid, and here's here's why
we did what we did." So, uh, stay at 60
Minutes. Absolutely. I It didn't occur
to me that this could happen. But Scott,
in a meeting you accused
Barry Weiss, the head of the network, of
wanting to murder the show,
of coming into 60 Minutes with the
agenda to dismantle the institution,
and you did not think that that was
going to have repercussions that could
lead to your firing.
>> We used to be able to have conversations
like that at CBS News. Um the the
difference today is that the people
running CBS News will not be questioned.
>> I want to take a step back because of
course all this
didn't happen in a vacuum.
The saga really at CBS News began when
David Ellison, the son of Oracle
billionaire Larry Ellison, took over CBS
as part of his purchase of Paramount. Um
there was a lot of turmoil around that
sale. the longtime previous owner of
Paramount and CBS Sherry Redstone
told my [clears throat] New York Times
colleague um
that she sold the company to Ellison in
part because after Hamas's attack on
Israel on October 7th, she wanted to
devote herself to causes around Israel.
I'm sure there were other reasons as
well.
Did you ever speak to Miss Redstone
about the sale and how did you feel
about it?
I didn't speak uh to Sherry Redstone
about the sale. Um I felt the sale was
very necessary. Um the company was in
financial trouble. It wasn't clear what
our path forward was going to be just as
a company. Um Mr. Ellison came in with a
lot of money behind him.
uh a young man of vision
and I thought this is going to be very
good for all of us.
>> The very last thing that the previous
ownership did was pay a multi
multi-million dollar bribe to the
president uh to settle this frivolous
ridiculous lawsuit. Um and very shortly
after that somehow the Trump
administration approved the sale. So
that lawsuit against 60 Minutes had
caused a great deal of concern in 60
Minutes. Paying the bribe broke our
hearts. Um no lawyer thought that was
necessary, but they did it to get the
sale through. And at that point, my
colleagues and I thought, great, that's
behind us. we have bright new leadership
with financial resources.
We're in better shape than we were
before. That was the theory.
>> Just to give the context here, President
Trump had sued 60 Minutes over an
interview of Vice President Kla Harris
during the 2024 election. Um, as you
mentioned, uh, Paramount under Sher
Redstone settled the case even though
many legal experts believed that there
was no merit to the suit. And they paid
$16 million, uh, to the president.
>> Um, Paramount denied that those two
things were linked, that payment and
then the deal going through. [snorts]
>> And correct me if I'm wrong, am I
hearing you say that you supported the
sale to Ellison? had you lost confidence
in the leadership of Sher Redstone at
that point.
>> They bribed the president to get the
deal done. So yeah, there was a massive
collapse of confidence in the previous
ownership.
>> So the deal goes through and Ellison
takes over. What assurances, if any, did
you get from David Ellison and the new
leadership that there wouldn't be
interference at 60 Minutes? Did you ask
for those asurances? Did you speak with
David Ellison?
>> The morning the merger was announced as
complete,
I was amazed
that as far as I know, the first stop
that David Ellison made in his new
empire was 60 Minutes CBS News. First
thing in the morning, here he he's
walking through the 60 Minutes offices.
He comes and walks into my office and
extends his hand and says, "I'm proud to
meet you, sir." He called me. I guess
I'm just old, but um and I told him how
wonderful it was to meet him. He walked
out into our newsroom and made a very
nice speech about independence, about
how important 60 Minutes was to the
corporation at large, and essentially
telling everybody that they were going
to take care of us. Um, we were walking
on air. Uh, we liked him. Uh, he had the
financial backing to back up his words.
And we thought a bright new era was
coming after all the previous
difficulty.
>> Ellison then hires Barry Weiss to run
CBS News. Um, Weiss, we should say, is a
former opinion writer at the New York
Times who left to start her own
publication after claiming bias in the
Times opinion section. Uh, I never
worked with her for the record. Uh, the
free press, which she launched, is
generally pro-Israel. It builds itself
as pushing against what it sees as the
mainstream media. What did you make of
her appointment?
>> I was not familiar with her name. Uh, so
I did some research and discovered those
things that you just uh outlined.
She was going to be the new
editor-inchief at CBS News. There never
had been a title like that at CBS News.
It's sort of a print title. It doesn't
really uh translate to television, but
she wanted to call herself that. What
concerned me was that she had zero
television experience
uh and had never managed a large global
operation like CBS News. Those were red
flags to me. But I thought, you know,
David Ellison thinks she's the right
person for the job. We are absolutely
going to welcome her, listen to her, and
uh give her the benefit of the doubt.
I I mean, I'm surprised that you hadn't
heard of her. She's a lightning rod in
journalism.
>> You know,
she just hadn't crossed my radar. And if
I hadn't heard of Barry Weiss at that
point in time, that probably tells you
more about me than it does her.
>> So, when Barry comes in, she has a
meeting with senior 60inut staffers. And
in that meeting, she asked, and I'm
quoting, um, why does the country think
you're biased?
Is that a correct assessment of that?
>> I wasn't there.
>> I see.
>> But that is what I've been told by my
colleagues who were there and they were
shocked. That was sort of her hello to
the staff at 60 minutes. What was the
feeling about that particular opening
salvo to the team?
>> Uhoh.
She, I am told, said something to the
effect of, "Why do you think the country
thinks you're biased?"
But she didn't offer any kind of a
metric. You know, what's your metric?
Why do why do you think so? Uh do you
have a poll? Is there uh market
research? What what are you talking
about? because we certainly didn't
believe that.
And we just felt that she was making
statements that perhaps she couldn't
back up and was coming into the news
division with hardened preconceived
notions that didn't seem to be thought
through.
>> You have now accused Weiss of injecting,
and I'm quoting here, falsehoods and
bias. uh this was in your parting
statement
into at least one of your politically
sensitive stories. Can you tell me the
nature of that um complaint? What did
she specifically ask for? What story are
you talking about?
>> As I recall, that's February
and my team and I are doing a story
about the protests in Minneapolis
against the ICE crackdown there. We've
interviewed Senator Ran Paul,
Republican, because he's going to hold
hearings into this. And the fact that a
Republican was going to do that was
quite newsworthy. So, we interviewed
Senator Paul and then built out a story
about what had happened. Uh, the killing
of Renee Good, the killing of Alex Prey,
the protests.
I felt it was very important to
identify that the protesters themselves
were being very aggressive and that they
were half of the these confrontations.
And so I instructed my producers to find
images over the past few weeks of these
protests in which we see the protesters
acting aggressively. Uh, we found a
picture of a protester chest bumping an
officer. We found a picture of an
officer being hit in the head with a
snowball. Uh, we pulled together a lot
of video of protesters screaming in the
faces of officers because we were going
to talk about the killing of Prey and
the killing of good. And it seemed to me
important to tell the audience about the
entire context.
In fact, I remember writing a line in
the story that said that the protesters
were pushing the boundaries of what it
means to peacefully assemble, taking the
language from the First Amendment.
And I thought we'd done a really good
job with this. We also included a
picture of Alex Freddy before he was
killed uh kicking out a tail light on a
police car and made a point of saying
this is Alex Freddy and this is what he
did.
So the story goes through screenings uh
it's very wellreceived. There are notes
as always uh and we do rewrites as
always. Um but this is on a very tight
deadline. It's Sunday. were going on the
air that night. And in the case of
stories that are, as we say, crashing,
meaning right against the deadline, our
deadline on Sunday is noon.
So, we work on all of these things. We
get the piece uh approved by everyone
and about 4 hours after our deadline,
Barry Weiss sends an email to my boss,
Tanya Simon. [gasps]
Two of the things in the email include,
"Can we make the protesters look more
violent?"
Now, I'm paraphrasing. I don't have the
quote, but that's what was communicated
to me.
And the other thing was Renee Good's
car. You need to describe her as driving
toward the officer.
[snorts]
This uh is not what you see on the
video.
On the video, you see uh the officer
standing slightly
off the front of the car, and you
clearly see Miss Good's wheels turned
completely as far as they will go away
from the officer.
Uh but he shoots her uh in the head,
kills her, and says something about her
in that moment that I can't repeat uh in
polite company.
So
we have gone out of our way in our plan
from the very beginning to show the
protesters for the responsibility that
they had. We had already scrubbed the
video archives looking for those scenes,
but it somehow wasn't enough for Miss
Weiss.
The video showed that the officer wasn't
standing in front of the car and she
wasn't driving toward him. But that's
what the president said about that and
that's the way she wanted it described.
To be clear, there were lots of videos
that showed different moments of that
interaction
>> and there was a big many analyses
subsequently about what exactly through
those various videos had actually
happened,
>> including an excellent one by the New
York Times. The video that I showed in
our piece uh clearly showed the
officer's feet.
So, if he's standing in front of the
car, you can't see his feet. and it very
clearly showed that the uh wheels were
turned away from him uh what
[clears throat] appeared to be the
maximum
uh turn until the wheel had stopped.
>> So you get those
suggestions um feedback from the sort of
editorial chief of CBS News.
What did you do? I mean did you do as
she asked? I asked my producers, uh,
look, I told you to find violent video
of the protesters so we could represent
that accurately. Now, I want you to go
back and look again. Did we leave
anything out that's important? What What
did we make a mistake here? I don't
think so, but go back and look. And then
I sat down with a video editor and I
went over the video of the Renee Good
killing over and over and over again,
stop motion, slow motion, etc. And um
realized that the uh event was not as
the president said and not the way Barry
Weiss remembered it.
And so um it's late. Our deadline was
noon. It's now almost five o'clock.
Uh, that's dangerous as hell.
And so I decided that I wouldn't do
those things. I wasn't going to get in a
debate about it. I wasn't going to call
Barry Weiss about it. I was just going
to refuse to make those changes.
>> Did you change any language in the
broadcast? Anything?
>> Not that I recall based on her notes.
But, uh, as you probably are aware, uh,
when you're doing a story, especially on
deadline, a lot of things happen.
There's a lot of input, and you're just
scrambling to save everybody's skin
because you're going to have a crash if
you, which is what happened. Next day, I
didn't hear anything. Nobody called,
nobody said anything. It occurred to me
that maybe Barry Weiss didn't see the
broadcast and didn't realize that those
changes hadn't been made.
But um that's how that happened.
There was a thumb on the scale for the
president's version of events
that I felt was a level of political
influence that I had never seen in 37
years at CBS News.
>> Why was that the interpretation? I mean,
could she not have been trying to be
fair to the administration at a moment
of very high tension?
>> [snorts]
>> She could have been trying to be fair to
the administration, except I felt that
the story was abundantly fair uh to the
administration and uh and to the ICE
officers and to the the um Border Patrol
officers who were caught in that moment.
Um we were being told to write a version
of events that conflicted with the video
account. I couldn't understand that we
had already done in my view the
important work of journalism to balance
the story. Finally, the story was not
out of balance. Was not out of balance,
[snorts] but there was a thumb on the
scale to push the balance a little
further in another direction.
>> Is it possible to see this as the system
working?
She had notes. you felt they didn't make
sense to take the piece ran and there
was no retaliation.
>> Well, it was the interference is a
problem. Um especially a story that's
been approved by the top editors. Um
and
the bigger problem Lulu frankly
is not any kind of political influence.
The problem was the incompetence.
Um, you don't break a deadline. Now,
this is 4 hours after [snorts] that
episode of 60 Minutes came within 19
minutes of not making air. The entire
hour of 60 Minutes. Um,
it was the night of the Grammys.
[snorts] 60 Minutes was the lead into
the Grammys. And we almost didn't have a
broadcast. 19 minutes. I can't imagine
that's ever happened before. Uh and I
pledged to myself at that time that no
matter what Barry Weiss wanted to do in
a story, I would never break the
deadline again because we put the entire
network in jeopardy.
>> Scott, I
want to ask you point blank,
what did you think was going on with
Barry Weiss? Why did you think she was
asking for these things?
>> The impression that I had at the moment
was that
she was
representing,
let me try, I kind of need to be a
little bit careful here because I don't
want to be hyperbolic.
My impression at the time was that she
was putting a thumb on the scale on
behalf of the administration.
Um
just constantly
looking out for the views of the
president.
Uh we're reporting those views. There's
nothing wrong with reporting those
views, but it was it was never enough.
always needed more from the president,
from the administration, that sort of
thing. The the balance was off. We've
been working for balance for decades,
and for the first time in my career, the
balance was off.
>> I mean,
we should say Cecilia Vega, who was
recently fired, also alleged
interference in 60 Minutes after she was
let go. Sharon Alonsy as well. You are
now doing the same. These are three
highly respected longtime journalists
who are basically echoing um the same
claim. CBS has denied any bias or
interference, saying in a recent
statement that changes and disputes were
merely the quote normal back and forth
between editor and correspondent that
happens in every newsroom. I just want
to pause um before we go on. A more
generous interpretation of Weiss's
tenure might be that her missteps
have been due to a lack of experience,
not deliberate bias or malice. You know,
just thinking again about your comment
about her murdering 60 Minutes, could
inexperience be the real problem and
less a conspiracy to do away with CBS
News? I think inexperience is the larger
part part of the problem. Uh at a
certain point I began to think that um a
political bias was going to be our big
problem.
And then later it occurred to me that it
was the inexperience, the incompetence
that was the bigger problem. Uh the
breaking of deadlines, all that kind of
thing. I will never do that again. That
was a existential experience. M
>> I mean we are required to do our jobs.
Um and so the most difficult thing I
think for the staff is trying to make up
for all of these missteps in terms of
our production and in terms of the
technical aspects of television. It's
been enormously stressful. Another
high-profile 60 Minutes host, Anderson
Cooper, uh, declined to renew his
contract, too, this year. And at the end
of his final show, he went on air and
said, "I hope 60 Minutes remains 60
Minutes." That was seen as a swipe at
Barry Weiss. Did you talk to Anderson
about why he did not renew his contract
and his reasons for leaving?
>> I did not.
>> Okay. Was his declining
to renew his contract
seen as a problem for 60 Minutes or
um or a sign that something was a miss?
I mean, how did you receive that news?
>> Well, correspondents don't resign from
60 Minutes.
It's for people like me. It's the
greatest job in the world. There is
nothing else to aspire to.
And so if a person of Anderson Cooper's
stature
uh decides that he has to leave the
broadcast, that's a indication
um that he has found his role there
untenable.
>> It's been reported that Barry Weiss was
upset that Anderson Cooper's comments
had aired uh in that way.
>> That's my understanding.
>> Do you think that was part of the reason
executive producer Tanya Simon was let
go?
>> Yes.
Um
yes,
my understanding
from people directly involved in that
interaction
uh is that uh Barry Weiss was quite
livid that Anderson Cooper was allowed
to say those things and that she Barry
was not consulted beforehand
uh which in our normal course of
business would not have been done
anyway. way. Uh, and I believe that uh
that was part of the reason
uh Tanya was let go. Uh, but she wasn't
let go for cause. She was let go to
create a space for the new person, Nick
Bilton, uh, to come in. [clears throat]
Tanya um was completely blindsided by
this. She was told
that she was coming into a meeting
to discuss the past season and the next
season. [snorts] Kind of a lessons
learned and planning meeting.
So, she doesn't go there with a lawyer
or with um a a witness of any kind. She
walks in, she sits down. I'm told that
Tom Sabrowski and Barry Weiss are in
there. And Tom starts the meeting with
uh the nature of this meeting has
changed.
Um we're letting [clears throat] you go.
Uh and just told her she was fired and
had to get out of her office by 5:00.
Can I give you a little bit of
background?
The Simon family is legendary at CBS
News. her father uh was a famous
Vietnam correspondent and then Bob Simon
covered every single war everywhere in
the world throughout his entire career.
I was with him uh in uh Kuwait uh during
the Gulf War in 1990. We would stand on
the roof of the hotel and watch the
missiles come in. He taught me how to be
a war correspondent.
And then Tanya Simon comes in. She's at
the broadcast 30 years.
There is no respect for that.
Get out of the office by 5:00.
What company in the world treats their
precious people in that way?
The callousness,
the inhumanity,
breathtaking. Complete lack of empathy
in this management for anyone who works
there. How can you have someone who
deserves so much respect? Tanya Simon
spent her whole childhood
waiting for the call that her father was
dead,
never knowing if she would ever see him
again.
her whole childhood.
Get out by 5:00.
Make of that what you will.
>> I can hear how much this
has hurt you.
[snorts]
>> Yes. It's like your spouse being
murdered.
And I I don't care about me. It's not
about me. Um,
I am not emotional about this because I
have lost this job. I've done it for a
long time. [snorts]
Um, I've had the greatest experiences.
But the people I leave behind,
treated in this way,
that breaks my heart. Uh, and it's going
to take me a long time to get over it.
To to be perfectly honest,
>> one of the arguments that Barry Weiss
has made about 60 Minutes in CBS News is
that they need to be brought into the
modern era. Nick Bilton also said um, in
a staff meeting with you that broadcast
is an ice cube that is melting.
Do you think they have a point and that
60 minutes needs to change even if it's
reaching a huge audience now? Does its
metabolism,
do the kinds of correspondence that it
has have to change to reach a younger
audience that interacts with media in a
completely different way and looks at
journalists perhaps like you as
something from a different era,
>> too old. Um, of course we have to reach
out to a younger and younger audience.
Um, but their argument about joining the
internet age is just disingenuous.
Um, it's almost as if Barry Weiss and
Nick Bilton were sealed in a time
capsule in 1990
and it just cracked open. They've just
discovered the internet and they're
running around telling everybody how
important it is at CBS News. Yeah. Uh,
join the fight. Uh, we started our first
60 minutes
online show, 60 Minutes overtime in
2010.
I shoot Tik Tok verticals or I used to
shoot Tik Tok verticals on every
assignment. I shot material for overtime
on every assignment.
We're there. We're everywhere.
>> So, you don't think 60 Minutes needs to
change?
My point is that 60 Minutes is
constantly changing, constantly
innovating.
So I just find the charge that we at 60
Minutes were frozen in amber in 1968 and
nothing's ever changed since then. I
find that absolutely absurd and the kind
of argument that would be made by people
who just don't know what we are.
Nick Bilton sent a very consiliatory
note to the staff um
this past uh week
>> at last.
>> He promised editorial independence. He
praised some of your longtime
colleagues, Leslie Stall, Bill Whitaker,
John Woreram,
and I just want to say my producer just
told me that while we've been talking,
>> those three released a statement that
they are staying at 60 minutes.
>> How does that make you feel?
same reason I was staying. Uh we felt
like I haven't talked to them. I assume
it's the same reason and we have had
conversations before this about staying
to maintain the principles of the
broadcast. Um if we leave, we can't
help.
And that was my
opinion. Um, there have been other times
when Anderson left, when others were
fired that we could have stormed into a
meeting and quit, [snorts]
but those very distinguished
correspondents and myself did have
conversations about this over time and
decided that we were better working on
the inside and that we could influence
things for the better and we did. Uh,
and it was my intention to stay and do
exactly that. Do you think though they
can trust those assurances?
>> No. No. I would venture to say that
trust is broken.
>> Do [clears throat] you think Barry Weiss
needs to be removed?
>> Oh gosh, yes. Um,
look, she's a lovely person and her free
press organization that she founded has
been very successful. She's proven that.
Um, great for her, [snorts] but
television's not her thing.
Um, she brings an ideology into CBS News
where that is just anathema.
And so, it's a terrible fit.
It's probably not her fault, but it's
just a terrible fit. She doesn't know
television. She doesn't understand how
it works. She doesn't have management
experience for a large or organization
like CBS News. So, uh, yes, I I do think
that we would be far better off without
her. Maybe she goes back to the free
press and has a sterling career, but
this is like somebody walking up to me
and saying, "There's a 747.
There are 400 people on it. We need you
to fly it to Paris."
I'm going to decline
because I don't have a clue.
And it would have been so much better if
Barry Weiss had been offered this job
and said, "Oh, that's not for me. I
don't know how to do that."
>> President Trump reacted to you being
fired.
>> Did he?
>> He went on a podcast and called you a
stiff.
>> I'm surprised that the president of the
United States would bother toh notice,
but Okay. Please, please tell me. I I'm
not aware of this.
>> He also said you were part of this gang
of stupid, crooked people that don't
care about your country.
>> Um,
stupid. I can uh I I I can take that.
Um, stiff. Yeah, probably. Um,
don't care about the country.
[clears throat]
Uh, I've never worn the uniform,
but I've been in combat for this country
in Afghanistan and Iraq,
[snorts] Kuwait,
been shot at,
spent nights in foxholes filling up with
water in the desert.
I'm not aware that the president of the
United States has ever done any of those
things for his country. Please correct
me if I'm wrong.
You become a journalist
because you love the First Amendment.
You become a journalist because you love
the country.
And while all the other descriptions uh
that the president used about me might
be applicable,
not that one.
There is no democracy
without journalism.
It can't be done.
And that is why I am a journalist.
>> Last few questions.
>> You know, on Fox News, they're going to
just run the parts where I'm crying and
say I'm a lunatic.
[laughter] It's
>> the era we live in.
>> It is the era we live in. [snorts]
>> Scott, you joined CBS as a reporter in
1989.
>> Uh, proudest day of my life. You know,
as I was preparing for this interview, I
was thinking about in many ways how the
story of
modern CBS is the story of your own
career, too. Um
when you look back
because your tenure is now over, what do
you hope your departure does? Um what do
you hope will happen now?
>> My hope is uh that the leadership of
Paramount will say to themselves, okay,
this isn't working.
Um, we have broadcasts that almost don't
get on the air. We have respected
journalists saying that there is a thumb
on the scale for one political party
over another. Um, we have a broadcast
which is uh among the most important in
America, the most successful in the
history of all of television.
It was doing great.
So why are we making these changes?
We need adult supervision
and at the moment we don't have it. We
have people who have been installed in
these jobs who through no fault of their
own, have no experience in television.
It's not their fault,
but they don't know what they're doing.
And there's a
subtle political bias that I've never
seen at 60 Minutes before. [snorts]
And so, or at CBS News before.
And so, that that is my hope. Uh, a
return to sanity, a return to honor, a
return to courage. We used to have all
of those things in abundance,
and now we don't.
We can
save this.
It's possible to land this plane.
But right now, CBS News, in my view, is
on fire.
[music] Scott P, thank you so much for
coming in today.
>> [music]
[music]
>> I'm Lulu Garcia Navaro
>> and I'm David Maresy
>> and we're the hosts of the interview an
audio and video [music] podcast from the
New York Times.
>> Every week we interview fascinating and
influential people from all walks of
life. Subscribe to our YouTube channel
[music] so you'll never miss an episode.